# Sentiment Analysis

Sentiment Analysis is a machine learning technique which detects the polarity within the sentence, text, paragraph or whole document etc. Polarity includes: Positive, Negative or Neutral.  Sentiment Analysis system use Natural Language processing (NLP), Text Analysis, Machine Learning. A sentiment analysis of text analysis combines NLP and Machine Learning to assign sentiment score to the entities, topics, categories within the sentence or a phrase and tries to identify and extract opinion with text across blogs, reviews, news etc. For any business understanding the emotions of people is essential. Sentiment analysis tools allow business to identify the sentiment of customers towards the product since customer is able to express their thoughts and feelings openly. From survey responses to social media conversations and by automatically customer¡¯s feedback, brands are able to listen the customers attentively and tailors products to meet their needs. If we take an example of hotel sentiment analysis reviews how their services provides to the customers this would help to discover if your customer is happy or not about your hotel services etc.

## How Sentiment Analysis works?

Sentiment analysis uses various NLP methods and algorithms. Taking sentiment analysis of a hotelreview, it follows some process First we take out data set of hotel reviews which contain some information like customer¡¯s name, id, contact-number, customer¡¯s address and comments then we filter out some unimportant information like customer¡¯s name, id, contact-number, address after that we will again filter out some more information from comments that we don¡¯t want like commas, inverted commas, numbers etc. we also ignore pronouns like he , she, it, they etc because there is no need in our analysis. We will highlight our major information from the comments that are happy, satisfied, average, bad, good, highly satisfied and so on. After filtration of all unnecessary information and highlighted information we identify how many percentage of our hotel review is positive and how many percentage is negative and then represent them in the form of graph, On this basis now we will decide is there any need of improvement in our services and how we will improve all the negative reviews.

## Need of sentiment analysis

Sentiment analysis is extremely useful in social media monitoring as it allows us to gain an overview of the wider public opinion behind certain topics. ... The overall customer experience of your users can be revealed quickly with sentiment analysis, but it can get far more granular too